This lecture is on installing Rtools.
This lecture is primarily useful for
people using Windows computers.
People that are using Mac or Linux don't
necessarily need this lecture.
So Rtools is a collection of tools that
are necessary for building R packages in
Windows.
We won't be doing that right away, but
later in developing data trials you will
be doing
that, so you need to be able to
install Rtools if you're going to complete
that class.
And so, Rtools is available for, download
at
this website up here, as I've listed it.
And so, what you can do is you can find a
version
of Rtools that is available that is the
latest version, and so you
want to select the .exe download link, and
it corresponds to your version of
R, so you need to figure out what version
of R you have.
And then, download that version, if you
are not sure what version
of R you have, open and restart R and you
will see in
the very beginning there will be some text
listed out and one of
the things they list out in that text is
the version of R.
If you, have the most recent version of R,
you should select
the most recent Rtools download, it's at
the top of the chart.
And so, if you just installed R for this
course,
then you will also need the latest version
of Rtools.
Once the download completes, you'll just
open
the executable file to begin the
installation.
So basically unless you know what you're
doing, you should just
go with the default selection at each
steps of the installation.
There only two steps worth noting, so if
you already have Cygwin installed on your
machine,
you should just follow the instructions
given during
installation, and those instructions are
also at this URL.
And you should make sure that box is
checked to have the installer edit your
path.
And so you can see it very, very, if
you're very eagle eyed, in this below.
But basically make you sure check the box
to allow the installer to edit your path.
Once the Rtools installation completes,
you can open our studio, and
you install the dev tools package if you
don't already have it.
So, if you type find.packages("devtools")
in the console,
you'll figure out whether you have it or
not.
And then to install it, you can just, as
in previous
lectures, just use
install.packages("devtools") like that,
and you'll have the devtools package.
After devtools is done installing you can
load it using library(devtools) and then
type find_rtools(), like this as shown
below, and this should return a TRUE.
So you should see TRUE printed out on the
screen if
Rtools installation has worked properly
and you'll be ready to go.